[DOCS] Updates KQL doc (#77817)
elastic/kibana: docs/discover/kuery.asciidoc

[[kuery-query]]
=== Kibana Query Language

The Kibana Query Language (KQL) makes it easy to find
the right field and syntax for your {es} query. If you have the
https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions[Basic tier] or above,
simply place your cursor in the *Search* field. You’ll get suggestions for fields,
values, and query operators as you type.

This guide provides examples of common KQL searches, from a basic term
query to more complex queries with boolean operators and groupings. It
also provides examples of searching nested fields.

If you prefer Kibana’s legacy query language, based on the
{ref}/query-dsl-query-string-query.html#query-string-syntax[Lucene query syntax],

> you can switch to it using the Options menu in the *Search* field.

Author: Your review pointed out other problems with this sentence that I fixed.

but so will "quick fox brown".

NOTE: Terms without fields are matched against the default field in your index settings.
If a default field is not
set, these terms are matched against all fields. For example, a query
for `response:200` will search for the value 200
in the response field, but a query for just `200` will search for 200
across all fields in your index.

[discrete]
=== Boolean queries

KQL supports `or`, `and`, and `not`. By default, `and` has a higher precedence than `or`.
To override the default precedence, group operators in parenthesis.

To match documents where `response` is 200, `extension` is php, or both:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
response:200 or extension:php
-------------------

To match documents where `response` is 200 and `extension` is php:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
response:200 and extension:php
-------------------

To match documents where `response` is 200 or 404.

[source,yaml]
-------------------
response:(200 or 404)
-------------------

To match documents where `response` is 200 and `extension` is either php or css:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
response:200 and (extension:php or extension:css)
-------------------

> To match documents where `response` is 200 and `extension` is

Author: The "and" is needed here.

php OR `extension` is css and response is anything:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
response:200 and extension:php or extension:css
-------------------

To match documents where `response` is not 200:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
not response:200
-------------------

> To match documents where `response` is 200 but `extension` is not php or css.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To match documents where response is `200` but extension is not `php` or `css`.
```

[source,yaml]
-------------------
response:200 and not (extension:php or extension:css)
-------------------

To match multi-value fields that contain a list of terms:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
tags:(success and info and security)
-------------------

[discrete]
=== Range queries

KQL supports `>`, `>=`, `<`, and `<=`. For example:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
account_number:>=100 and items_sold:<=200
-------------------

[discrete]
=== Exist queries

> An exist query matches documents that contain a value for a field, in this case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An exist query matches documents that contain a value for a field, in this case,
```

> `response`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
response:
```

[source,yaml]
-------------------
response:*
-------------------

[discrete]
=== Wildcard queries

To match documents where `machine.os` starts with "win", such
as "windows 7" and "windows 10":

[source,yaml]
-------------------
machine.os:win*
-------------------

To match multiple fields:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
machine.os*:windows 10
-------------------

> This sytax is handy when you have both `text` and `keyword`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sytax is handy when you have `text` and `keyword`
```

> versions of a field. This query checks both `machine.os` and `machine.os.keyword`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
versions of a field. The query checks `machine.os` and `machine.os.keyword`
```

for the term
"windows 10".

[discrete]
=== Nested field queries

A main consideration for querying {ref}/nested.html[nested fields] is how to match parts of the nested query to the individual nested documents.

> There are two main approaches:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two approaches:
```

}
----------------------------------

[discrete]
==== Match a single document

To match stores that have more than 10 bananas in stock:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
items:{ name:banana and stock > 10 }
-------------------

`items` is the "nested path". Everything inside the curly braces (the nested group)
must match a single nested document.

The following query does not return any matches because no single nested
document has bananas with a stock of 9.

[source,yaml]
-------------------
items:{ name:banana and stock:9 }
-------------------

[discrete]
==== Match different documents

The subqueries in this example are in separate nested groups
and can match different nested documents.

[source,yaml]
-------------------
items:{ name:banana } and items:{ stock:9 }
-------------------

`name:banana` matches the first document in the array and `stock:9`
matches the third document in the array.

[discrete]
==== Match single and different documents

To find a store with more than 10
bananas that *also* stocks vegetables:

[source,yaml]
-------------------
items:{ name:banana and stock > 10 } and items:{ category:vegetable }
-------------------

> The first nested group (`name:banana and stock > 10`) must still match a single document, but the `category:vegetables`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first nested group (`name:banana and stock > 10`) must match a single document, but the `category:vegetables`
```
